"Do you think this type of analysis will work on different types of data? If so, what kind of topics do you see it being used for in the future? If not, why don’t you think so?"
"Is there a certain technique to choosing the appropriate number of clusters? In the article, Sherin chose 7 clusters.  He also mentioned the more clusters there are the more detailed the data, but that also makes it  more complicated to work with.  I was just wondering if the number of clusters chosen is arbitrary or there is a systematic process involved.  For instance does it depend on the quality and quantity of the data? Or does one always choose a cluster in the upper middle set of clusters?"
"Reading this paper did also leave me with a bit of a ""so what"" feeling that was not touched upon until the conclusion.  Basically what is the extended application of the models described in this paper?  I understand that the paper was to prove systematic purposes in the process of data analysis, but in what way can this be applied to human memory and learning?  More simply, how can a computational model be compared to the human thinking process? "
"Do you think that in giving the interviewers freedom to craft questions for clarification, it could have influenced the students or provided inconsistencies in the responses?"
Are there boundaries to what you would consider commonsense science knowledge?
"Since he is a proponent of the knowledge in pieces aspect, I would like to know why he does not agree with the theory-theory perspective. Which part of the theory-theory perspective does he disagree with, and which parts of the knowledge in pieces perspective does he find particularly compelling?"
"As he explained in the paper, students construct and assemble ideas to answer questions and change them as they go along. How do people currently code this, and could that method be somehow computationally represented?"
"You said that ""my aims are primarily methodological in nature; I will attempt to show that it is possible to use relatively simple techniques from computational linguistics to analyze the type of data that is typically employed by researchers in commonsense science."" In your analysis, you don't really provide any suggestions for how other research experiments, that you seemed to indicate in the introduction were too complex, should or shouldn't adjust their methods. Is there anything you'd suggest based on your research outside of the what's written in the article?"""
"Given that humans' conveyance of common sense them is dependent on more than just speech, is it OK to ignore these other factors and only pay attention to what the students say? Are other indicators of common sense worth sacrificing for experimental simplicity, your stated research goal? "
"How exactly did you fit the clusters that didn’t clearly correspond with one of the explanations (clusters 2, 3, 5, and 6), onto one of the explanations and how did you categorize transcripts of students’ that were predominantly one of those four clusters? "
Did the results of the experiment indicate whether the students were using a theory-theory perspective or a knowledge-in-pieces perspective? 
"I'm curious as to how you selected the student subjects since there wasn't really any background regarding them (unless I missed it). Are these students all around the same age group? If they're in college, are all subjects non-scientifically inclined students, and how do you know that they didn't have some prior science background? Couldn't their academic background may have an effect on the words they chose? "
"Were there any students that declined to answer, saying something like ""I don't really know how seasons work,"" or were clearly guessing to the best of their ability? If so, how did you take those responses into account?"
"You raise the point in 6.3.2 that this sort of analysis makes gestures/drawings seem unimportant, which seems to contradict our intuitions. I would have thought that as some gestures or drawings are used in place of words, the clusters may be a bit biased without them. How might this sort of analysis incorporate a broader amount of data, such as gestures/drawings, to estimate their weight/importance?"
"Did people have to program the vocabulary list and stop list manually? Or did the program scan the text and do this itself? The former seems like a lot of work, and also prone to human error so I would guess that this step is written into the program."
"What implications does vector space modeling have for artificial intelligence, specifically regarding computer comprehension during human interaction?  "
"Is it possible to use vector space modeling for audio clips? If so, would it be possible to incorporate tone into the categorization of segments?"
"If the interviewer had freedom to craft questions on the spot in order to clarify what a student was saying during a portion of the interview, doesn't this create a new unaccounted variable?"
"If clustering analysis was largely successful in the absence of gestures as well as diagrams, what do you believe this suggests about thought process? Do we potentially structure Knowledge elements into a Dynamic Mental Construct using internal language?"
"How do you think your study could be applied practically to helping students properly learn about phenomena, if at all? "
"Do you think the cluster data is really conclusive? What were your criteria when combining two clusters, and how objective do you consider those criteria?"
You mentioned in your paper that your developing a computational approach to analyzing data was in part driven by your desire to find out what the elements might be in the KiP perspective. Did you find out what some of those elements could be based on this particular research study?
"Cognitive Science relies on the influence from and dependency upon other fields to explain human behavior, biology, and cognition. What kind of preparatory research did you have to go through to conduct research that heavily depended on linguistic methods dealing with a topic in the learning sciences?  "
Have there ever been participants in the experiments with DMCs that included multiple aspects of the subject i.e.( Earth tilt AND hemisphere determine season)?
"If so, wouldn't this affect the weighting of raw counts and how would you counter this change?"
"The results from using computational methods (the vector space model in particular) appear to be a good representation of the student conceptions and views, especially since changes in cluster values over time can demonstrate a shift in one's explanation. What are the components and advantages of human analysis that render exclusively computational analysis insufficient?"
"In your paper, “Using computational methods to discover student science conceptions in interview data”, you discuss as a potential limitation that this particular study only focuses on seasons and that in further research you want to explore other topics to ensure that there is not something special about people’s prior knowledge to seasons that may not relate to other topics. Have you considered also attempting to gather information about where participant’s prior conceptions may be coming from? "
If it is in fact the case that simple techniques can be used to analyze date in common sense science can this result help the efficiency of researchers beyond simply validating their prior results?
"As the primary purpose of artificial intelligence (in regards to cognitive science) is to discover something about the human process by creating and analogically studying a functional artificial system, what does your research, as described in your 2012 article, propose about human cognition? "
"1.  In your paper ""Using computational methods to discover student science concepts in interview data"" you say that your work might have been biased by your belief in knowledge-in-pieces perspective.  Can you elaborate on why you hold that perspective, and how you think it might have biased your experimentation?"
"2.  In the same paper, you present the responses of three students, Zelda, Caden and Edgar and the segmenting analysis of their transcripts.  Although all of these responders answered the question about the origin of the seasons, they all had some degree of accuracy.  What would a segmenting analysis look like of someone who answered completely inaccurately (i.e. no mention of the tilt of the earth, etc.)"
"Can automated analysis assert its own argument against human analysis, or is it simply a verification tool?"
"I understand what implications this study has for education research, but what practical application does it have for working teachers?"
"1.) Had the clusters contained more than the top 10 words used in the transcripts, would there be any significant differences in the analysis of the students' responses?"
"2.) How were negatives handled in the vector formation and analysis? Were these words included in the stop lists and if so, would the analyses and conclusions be an appropriate interpretation of the students' responses?"
Q: In what ways do you think your bias toward the KiP perspective affected how you approached this project? What do you think you would have done differently if you were instead biased toward the TT perspective?
"1. Do you think you could use a similar technique for analyzing the gestures, drawings, etc. that students use after somehow describing/coding them?"
2. Could this technique be used to show which kinds of questions from interviewers best prompt students to move towards the correct explanation?
"How might a computational analysis of commonsense science account for cultural differences in students, such as the use of cultural metaphors?"
"Of all of the different learning techniques you have done research with, which (if any) do you think is the most practical for use in a real classroom setting? Or would that defeat the purpose of ""natural learning""?"
"1) What is the ceiling for these kinds of computational linguistic techniques, and what are their major limitations?  Are there any aspects of LSA (or more advanced techniques) that are limited in terms of the computing power they require?"
"2) What are the applications of these methods in artificial intelligence? Could it be used in NLP, or to advance web search capabilities?"
For Dr. Sherin: Would it be possible to use a similar methodology to code gesture in commonsense science explanations to see if categories of gesture correspond to categories of linguistic information? What would you expect gesture to tell us about commonsense explanations of scientific principles?
"1. As I interpreted from your work, the researchers manually go about choosing which segments should be clustered together using the hierarchical agglomerative clustering (HAC) approach. But are there certain criteria you use to make those decisions and is that a process that can be automated in the future as well?"
"2. I understand that your work is based mainly upon the knowledge-in-pieces theory for commonsense science knowledge in students, but have you become familiarized with any research regarding the theory-theory perspective and how does that research differ from your view?"
"Sherin: While I appreciate the meticulousness of your experiment, I struggle to see the broader implications of your work. You seem to have focused on such a specific aspect of novice's explanations of common-sense science, and I hope you can clarify how translating these explanations into vectors will further understanding of such common sense knowledge? Though human analyses are vulnerable to subjectivity and error, there are some aspects of human interaction that cannot be reduced to numbers. The computational results may have done about as well as a human does, with some aspects lacking, but I fail to see how computational techniques IMPROVE upon human analyses."
"For Bruce Sherin: Commonsense science knowledge is defined as “the everyday knowledge of the natural world that is gained outside of formal instruction.”  How were you sure that in the 54 middle school students that were interviewed, none of them had advanced experiences in education and had formal instruction that may have taught them about the seasons?"
"It's mentioned that the clusters developed with the vector space analysis seem to be grouped into sections that can be associated with each class of explanations (p.193). Do you think this demonstrates a relation between the vector space clusters and how the human mind groups or activates similar or related words, or keywords that strongly relate to one topic more so than others?"
In your paper you mention that you would like to see how your computational analysis tool works when used to analyze other types of interviews.  It seems that your tool would only work on the type of interview that would not rely on nonverbal communication. Would you say that this is true?
"-   When addressing conceptual changes, do you find a common pattern amongst students as to how they conceptualize information or how malleable their minds are for forming new conceptions?"
"-   In your experience, to what degree does the child’s educational environment dictate or predict the types of conceptual models they"
take on?
"-   How would the statistical language approach used in this paper, to assess kids conceptualization of commonsense science knowledge, differ if you were assessing conceptualizations of vastly different domains/topics?"
"1. Within the article this week (Sherin, 2012), the model presented seems so ingenious to be able to actually form clusters and connections with a system as ambiguous as natural language. In your opinion could other facets of this interview data, such as hand gestures, also become automatized? For instance assembling a corpus of hand motions left, right, vertically, horizontally etc., establishing vectors and the discovering clusters. Could this pave way to making interpretations without even reading the interview transcript?"
"2. As a researcher strongly drawn more towards the knowledge-in-pieces perspective of commonsense science knowledge who has conducted a lot of research upon scaffolding learning, how can moments of intuition or clarity be explain in the absence of externally learning? For instance, why is it that students can correct themselves in the middle of an interview? Wouldn’t this merely reflect the fact that they do not understand a concept (such as the seasons) at all?"
"Would the methodologies used in this study be able to apply to the theory-theory perspective at all? If so, in what way could they be used, or how could the methodologies be altered to pertain to the theory-theory perspective? Additionally, have you done any further work with the simple methods used in the experiment since the publication of the paper to see if the success of the methodologies could be generalized to more interview-type situations?"
"You mentioned that the experimenter could improvise questions to ask the students in order to prompt updated DMCs. I realize that the intention of this specific paper was to explain your methods, but have you analyzed this data in a way that accounts for the transcript of the interviewer and the updated responses of the interviewees? If so, are there specific codewords and/or syntactic strategies that lead to a quicker learning process for the interviewee? "
"On that topic, is LSA capable of mapping syntactic relationships between certain words? "
"Finally, were the subjects in this study controlled for IQ and/or vocabulary proficiency?"
"1) Because the vector space model is relies mostly on spatial relationships for representations, is there ever a worry that this analyzing technique oversimplifies concepts to the point that there is no standalone meaning?"
"2) If one were to adopt a theory-theory perspective on commonsense science and if the vector space model was used to analyze some data, how would one expect that map out differently from the KiP perspective? More or less clustering of the vectors? Or perhaps spatially more arranged with vectors connecting with one another?"
"1)  You mention that your algorithm analysis only uses the written transcripts from the interviews...do you think that they could account for body language, prosody, etc. anytime in the future?"
"2) This doesn't fully relate to the reading, but when you are coding a computational model, which programming language do you find the easiest to work with? The hardest?"
Did you utilize any special programs/shortcuts to compute the deviation vectors?
"Your research attempts to use ""computational linguistics to automate data analysis from commonsense science interviews."" However, when you are associating certain clusters with certain explanations of the seasons, isn’t it arbitrary? For example, ""it seems natural to associate Cluster 1, which starts with the words tilted, towards, and away, with tilt-based explanations."" How might you associate the clusters with the season explanations in a less subjective way?"
"2. If you are essentially using the occurrence of key words as a basis of clustering student's texts into either tilt-based, side-based, and closer-farther explanations of the seasons, how do you account for key words overlapping in other explanations? For example, the words ""closer"" and ""farther"" appear in Cluster 1, 3, and 7."
How could the method presented possibly account for sarcasm or jokes effectively?
"Are these vector space models discussed in your research the same methods employed by the scientists who created Watson? If not, does Watson utilize a similar technique?"
"How does using a “bag of words model” not have a great effect on the overall analysis? Why can we just disregard what order the words are said in? What about the case when the right answer is stated, but negated (example-it is NOT because of the earth’s axis tilt”)? Why wouldn’t order matter in that case? "
The kind of analysis described in the article sounds similar to some featured available in qualitative research software such as dedoose. There are also some software that could analyze facial expression during interviews to evaluate candidates. I am interested in learning the professor’s opinion on these current technology and how they might be related to his research topics.
"Why was the particular interview question about the seasons chosen, and would similar analysis be possible on other questions? Can these methods be used in analysis in other fields of research?"
What applications could you see for NLP processing of Commonsense Science? The obvious that comes to mind is automated computer tutoring after NLP successfully understands the student's base cognitive model. Do you think this would be more effective than in-person professional tutoring?
"You reference McCloskey's work on naive theories of motion in discussing the (most extreme articulation of) the ""theory-theory"" perspective that children's naive theories bear fundamental similarities to those possessed by adult scientists. Comparing this with the knowledge-in-pieces perspective, what sort of ""underlying knowledge elements"" might underlie naive physics reasoning? "
"With regard to deviation vectors: isn't it a possible concern that you seemingly derived them in order to get the results that you were looking for? 
"
"According to your article, commonsense research seems to focus on specific domains of knowledge rather than general pockets of knowledge. Wouldn’t this focus inevitably rule out certain groups of people for research and eliminate the possibility of exploring universal concepts in commonsense? In that way, wouldn’t this no longer be looking at commonsense, and instead looking at disparities in education level?"
"In this article, commonsense science was tested using seasons. I wonder what the results would be if you used something more geographically niche, like habits of wild animals - and if children in sub-saharan Africa would answer better than children in downtown Los Angeles."
Would there be a way for the computational techniques to be able to detect the changes in emotions or in tone of the voice of the interviewees? Would machines be able to someday capture the qualitative data like emotions or tone that only humans are able to detect as of today?
"It was noted that the system of analysis does not consider facial expressions or gestures. Would a next step be to design a system that takes these factors into account? And how could a computer read and process these factors?
"
"What are some aspects of strictly human analysis in interpreting interview data that could benefit from the use of computational systems?
"
"In order for vector analysis to occur do you need to physically program the NLP software for basic words and word segments? If so, how do you expect to encompass all words efficiently? Is there an easier way to program the software?"
How were the students for the interviews chosen (i.e. were they all from public schools/private schools? -- did you account for these types of differences between how certain students are raised etc.?)
Do you think there is still value in qualitative coding? It seems to me that having humans perform the analysis as opposed to computers allows the capture of emotions and nuances that would otherwise be missed.
Do you have any plans to run other interviews of this kind with different questions to see if there are other topics that can be broken down as effectively as the seasons question?
How could gestures and drawings be accounted for in future computational analysis?
"In your article you state that one of the major limitations of the computational analyses was its inability to access students’ facial expressions, gestures or drawings. Do you think there would be some way these could be included in the program? Do you think it would be feasible to design a program where these gestures or expressions were inputted with certain denoted interpretations that the system could then utilize? Do you think this would be beneficial?"
"While you state that computational and traditional methods should be used in tandem to verify coding schemes, do you think that they will ever be applied alone or should they always be accompanied by human analysts?"
Could this technique be applied when interviewing kids of younger ages such as elementary school? Can natural language be as defined when they only have a limited vocabulary to use?
How do the statistical learning NLP models deal with non-adjacent information in the corpus? 
"Even though your article was a primarily methodological investigation, what are some of the research questions you are interested in? For example, do you think there is applicability of the NLP methods mentioned to analyze job interviews or medical student patient interviews?"
"Wouldn't these studies be very dependent on individual interviewers' techniques? How can these studies control for this variable, and has it often been noted to be a confounding variable?"
"Would you expect that the abilities of the computational analyses would hold up when analyzing a more complex subject than just middle schoolers discussing seasons? For example, would this method be viable to use if you were to interview PhD candidates on their complex theses? "
"The analysis focused on interviews about seasons, which is rather scientific and relational. What if the interview topic is about politics, music, or something more abstract and less logical? Would it be more difficult to create an automated analysis with these topics?"
What value does the analysis provide to researchers? I am a bit confused by the purpose.
"What do you think about using computational modeling to quantify some of the behavior, like the physical drawings, gestures, and facial expressions, that you pointed out were left out of the NLP computational processing. Since there is software that can analyze images, eye tracking, and gestures do you think this additional computational data would have a meaningful impact on the clusters and understanding of the interviews?"
"Methodologically, how do the factor analytic techniques used in dimensionality reduction for vector space models of NLP account for the variability evident in how the within-person structure of between-factor correlations differs between students? How do you account for individual differences in the mental lexicons of different participants?"
"In the theoretical case that computational methods do not provide convergent evidence (with regard to human analysts) but instead diverge, how does one determine the validity of each set of results, or even the validity of the methods themselves? If we are relying on computational methods to provide convergent evidence, wouldn't it also be reasonable to assume that they hold the power to provide divergent evidence as well?
"
"Would the computational technique explored in this paper also be useful when comparing and contrasting the accuracy of commonsense between two groups of people? In other words, would computational analysis be able to take into account external factors that influence commonsense knowledge, such as cultural differences?"
"I wonder if children were presented with something they knew absolutely nothing about - something no one could explain, like an unsolved scientific phenomena, what the clusters of words would come out to be, and how it would affect the resulting vectors. "
"In your study, statistical NLP and vector space models were the two computational techniques that were used to analyze the data. Are there any other techniques that could be used to analyze data in the field of learning sciences?"
"What are some other real-world applications of this computational system of analysis, outside of assisting human analysts in 1-on-1 interviews?"
What kind of role do gestures and pictures have in interpreting interview data in human analysis and what does it mean if computational analysis is not able to include this information? 
"In preparing transcripts, the software segments the analyzed vectors into smaller parts to attach meaning to them. How do you account for the fact that breaking these transcripts down to smaller parts may cause different meaning than if it was in a larger vector?"
What other questions have you considered asking other than about seasons?
Has this technology been applied to the interpretation of any other data since the publishing of this article?
"How does the data differ among students of different ages, since they have differing levels of vocabulary and formal scientific education (some of the older kids may have even learned about seasons in school)?"
Has work been done since this article was written to answer new research questions using your computational analysis methodologies?
You also mentioned in the article about testing the computational analyses against different subject matter. What topics do you think would work best in helping to further test and extend this research?
Do you believe that our current AI systems are sufficiently equipped to handle the higher-level processing required to induce a coding scheme of conceptions?
"Would this work if the students were asked a more novel problem where their answers had to be more creative? For example, would the cluster analysis still be as simple if the responses did not fall within expected categories of thought?"
"Do you believe using these models to study a corpus can circumvent some of the limitations of having humans do corpus studies? (For example one of the problem with a corpus study is that it does not always consider contextual information adequately, depending on how the terms of the corpus study are defined)."
Is there literature on the coding of gestures for use in NLP analysis of human interviews/interaction?